June 2023's blog post for Liberty Tools and Liberty build plugins (#3192)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2023-07-10-liberty-ide-tools-maven-gradle-plugins-for-java-developers.adoc

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/yeekangc
author_github: https://github.com/yeekangc
seo-title: Updates in Liberty Tools and Liberty build plugins for Java developers - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin for Java developers to easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle.
blog_description: "New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin for Java developers to easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle."
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/blog/liberty-tools-marketplaces.png
open-graph-image-alt: Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA
---
= Liberty Tools, Maven plugin, and Gradle plugin updates for Java developers
YK Chang <https://github.com/yeekangc>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> // // // // // // // //

Reviewer: I would delete all these commented lines, just for tidiness as they're not needed any more.

// // // // // // // //

== Fast iterative development with Liberty Tools

Liberty Tools 23.0.6 are now available for use by Java developers to write cloud-native applications with Liberty.

Liberty Tools support popular integrated development environments (IDEs) such as Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA, allowing developers to focus on their code and rapidly iterate by using Liberty's link:/docs/latest/development-mode.html[dev mode] in their preferred IDE. Moreover, Liberty Tools provide editing assistance for developers to easily make changes to the Liberty configuration files, and coding assistance for writing applications using Jakarta EE (9.x and later) and MicroProfile (3.x and later) APIs.

Learn more about link:/docs/latest/develop-liberty-tools.html[Liberty Tools] and download them from different IDE marketplaces:

* link:https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/liberty-tools[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE] 
* link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Open-Liberty.liberty-dev-vscode-ext[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code] 
* link:https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14856-liberty-tools[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA] 

> Do not hesitate to share your feedback and what you would like to see in future releases via issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE], link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-vscode/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code], and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/issues/new[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please share your feedback and what you would like to see in future releases via issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE], link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-vscode/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code], and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/issues/new[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA].
```

Just seems a little more straightforward than parsing a negative.

== Build, package, and run easily with Liberty Maven & Gradle plugins

> Liberty build plugins enable developers to easily build and package their applications to run on Liberty using the popular Java build tools, Maven and Gradle. The latest versions of Liberty Maven Plugin and Liberty Gradle Plugin are 3.8.2 and 3.6.2 respectively. It's always recommended to use the latest versions of these build plugins to ensure you have the most recent fixes and enhancements. For example, starting with the 3.6 release, the Liberty Gradle Plugin supports running with Gradle 8.x. For more information, see link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/releases[Liberty Maven Plugin release notes] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/releases[Liberty Gradle Plugin release notes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Liberty build plugins enable developers to easily build and package their applications to run on Liberty using the popular Java build tools, Maven and Gradle. It's always recommended to use the latest versions of these build plugins to ensure you have the most recent fixes and enhancements, Liberty Maven Plugin 3.8.2 and Liberty Gradle Plugin 3.6.2. For example, starting with the 3.6 release, the Liberty Gradle Plugin supports running with Gradle 8.x. For more information, see link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/releases[Liberty Maven Plugin release notes] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/releases[Liberty Gradle Plugin release notes].
```

It's easier to parse the version number next to its respective name, rather than having to mentally map the versions to the names, especially for someone skimming the info.

> Liberty build plugins enable developers to easily build and package their applications to run on Liberty using the popular Java build tools, Maven and Gradle. The latest versions of Liberty Maven Plugin and Liberty Gradle Plugin are 3.8.2 and 3.6.2 respectively. It's always recommended to use the latest versions of these build plugins to ensure you have the most recent fixes and enhancements. For example, starting with the 3.6 release, the Liberty Gradle Plugin supports running with Gradle 8.x. For more information, see link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/releases[Liberty Maven Plugin release notes] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/releases[Liberty Gradle Plugin release notes].

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the "For example" sentence is referring to. What's it an example of? It feels more like an explanation of what version of Gradle you need, and that the equivalent info about Maven is therefore missing.

Reviewer 2: It's an example of why you would want to use a recent version of the plugin, because of added support for Gradle 8.x.

Author: Will change it to "For example, in Liberty Gradle Plugin 3.6, we added support for Gradle 8.x.”

> To use Liberty Maven Plugin 3.8.2, specify the following in your Maven build file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Liberty Maven Plugin 3.8.2, specify the following dependency in your Maven build file:
```
Not sure if "dependency" is the right word here but it needs something after "the following", which isn't a noun in its own right.

Reviewer 2: Maybe `configuration` instead of `dependency`.

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>io.openliberty.tools</groupId>
    <artifactId>liberty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>3.8.2</version>
</plugin>
----

> To use Liberty Gradle Plugin 3.6.2, specify the following in your Gradle build file:

Reviewer: Whatever you do for Maven above after "the following..." do here too.

[source,gradle]
----
apply plugin: 'liberty'

buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'io.openliberty.tools:liberty-gradle-plugin:3.6.2'
    }
}
----

> Create new issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/issues/new[Liberty Maven Plugin] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/issues/new[Liberty Gradle Plugin] if you have requests or run into problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have requests or run into problems, create new issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/issues/new[Liberty Maven Plugin] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/issues/new[Liberty Gradle Plugin].
```

== Contribute to Open Liberty and leave your mark

> Like the Open Liberty runtime itself, all of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin are open sourced and developed under the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty[OpenLiberty] organization on GitHub. You are welcome to contribute directly and make Liberty even better!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the Open Liberty runtime itself, all of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin are open source and are developed under the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty[OpenLiberty organization on GitHub]. You are welcome to contribute directly and make Liberty even better!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Liberty Tools, Maven plugin, and Gradle plugin updates for Java developers"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/yeekangc
author_github: https://github.com/yeekangc
seo-title: Updates in Liberty Tools and Liberty build plugins for Java developers - OpenLiberty.io

> seo-description: New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin for Java developers to easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
seo-description: New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin help Java developers easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle.
```

> blog_description: "New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin for Java developers to easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
blog_description: "New releases of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin help Java developers easily write applications in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA and build them using Maven and Gradle."
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/blog/liberty-tools-marketplaces.png
open-graph-image-alt: Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA
---
= Liberty Tools, Maven plugin, and Gradle plugin updates for Java developers
YK Chang <https://github.com/yeekangc>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

== Fast iterative development with Liberty Tools

> Liberty Tools 23.0.6 are now available for use by Java developers to write cloud-native applications with Liberty.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Liberty Tools 23.0.6 are now available for Java developers to write cloud-native applications with Liberty.
```

> Liberty Tools support popular integrated development environments (IDEs) such as Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA, allowing developers to focus on their code and rapidly iterate by using Liberty's link:/docs/latest/development-mode.html[dev mode] in their preferred IDE. Moreover, Liberty Tools provide editing assistance for developers to easily make changes to the Liberty configuration files, and coding assistance for writing applications using Jakarta EE (9.x and later) and MicroProfile (3.x and later) APIs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Liberty Tools support popular integrated development environments (IDEs) such as Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio Code, and IntelliJ IDEA, allowing developers to focus on their code and rapidly iterate by using Liberty's link:/docs/latest/development-mode.html[dev mode] in their preferred IDE. Moreover, Liberty Tools provide editing assistance for developers to easily make changes to the Liberty configuration files, and coding assistance for writing applications that use Jakarta EE (9.x and later) and MicroProfile (3.x and later) APIs.
```

Learn more about link:/docs/latest/develop-liberty-tools.html[Liberty Tools] and download them from different IDE marketplaces:

* link:https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/liberty-tools[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE] 
* link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Open-Liberty.liberty-dev-vscode-ext[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code] 
* link:https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14856-liberty-tools[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA] 

> Please share your feedback and what you would like to see in future releases via issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE], link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-vscode/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code], and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/issues/new[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please share your feedback and what you would like to see in future releases by opening issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Eclipse IDE], link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-vscode/issues/new[Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code], and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/issues/new[Liberty Tools for IntelliJ IDEA].
```

> == Build, package, and run easily with Liberty Maven & Gradle plugins

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Easily build, package, and run applications with Liberty Maven & Gradle plugins
```

To use Liberty Maven Plugin 3.8.2, specify the following configuration in your Maven build file:

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>io.openliberty.tools</groupId>
    <artifactId>liberty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>3.8.2</version>
</plugin>
----

To use Liberty Gradle Plugin 3.6.2, specify the following configuration in your Gradle build file:

[source,gradle]
----
apply plugin: 'liberty'

buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'io.openliberty.tools:liberty-gradle-plugin:3.6.2'
    }
}
----

If you have requests or run into problems, create new issues in the GitHub repositories for link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/issues/new[Liberty Maven Plugin] and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/issues/new[Liberty Gradle Plugin].

== Contribute to Open Liberty and leave your mark

> Like the Open Liberty runtime itself, all of Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin are open source and are developed under the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty[OpenLiberty organization on GitHub]. You are welcome to contribute directly and make Liberty even better!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like the Open Liberty runtime itself, Liberty Tools, Liberty Maven Plugin, and Liberty Gradle Plugin are open source and are developed under the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty[OpenLiberty organization on GitHub]. You are welcome to contribute directly and make Liberty even better!
```
